error_handling.md, before:

# Error handling
## Idea
Since wrong sensor readings can cause catastrophic failure of the Triped, it is important to find out when such incorrect readings occur and to deal with them accordingly.   
The general idea of the error handling is to check each step of the spi transfer from the beaglebone to the sensor for errors and to set the hardware interface into an error state, should the errors accumulate. 
The error types can also be weighted differently, depending on how critical they are in operation of the motors.  
Also, since higher level control blocks depend on the lower levels, the state of the lower levels need to be broadcastet. This is done via ros diagnostic topics.

## What is tracked
The error handling of the controller can be seen in the following diagram:
![error_handling_flowchart](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TriPed-Robot/joint_level_control/main/docs/triped_error_handling.svg)

The error handling is present in each layer of the joint level controller. It begins in the lowest layer with the spi transfer. 
The first check is, whether the spi device can be opened. If this isn't the case, then a flag indicating so, will be set. This flag is called `SPI_DEVICE_ERROR` and is set within the `error` parameter of the readSwingAngle function, which is a class variable of the HallSensor class.
Furthermore the spi mode is set, read and if an error occurs the `SPI_MODE_ERROR` flag will be set. 
Then after the spi transfer, the recieved message is checked for a set error bit, indicating a wrong last command frame to the sensor, and leading to the `SPI_CMD_ERROR` flag being set. The message is also checked for correct parity, since a wrong parity indicates incorrectly transfered sensor values. A wrong parity is indicated by the `SPI_PARITY_ERROR` flag.

The next layer is the HallSensor class. There the returned counts of the sensor are checked for feasibility. This means, the sensor returns a 16383 or 16384 value, if it is not correctly connected to the beaglebone. Therefore a reading of said values leads to another error called `ANGLE_OUT_OF_BOUNDS_ERROR`. The hall sensor now calculates the sensor angle from the counts and gives it, together with all error flags, to the next higher layer.

Finally, in the read function of the SwingJoint class the returned sensor angle is checked against the joint limits. Should the angle not be within the limits, specified in the joints.yaml file, the `JOINT_LIMIT_ERROR` flag is set.

### Weighing the errors
The SwingJoint class contains 

## What isn't tracked

## What happens if an error occurs

## Customisation


The Documentation of this repository can be seen [here](https://triped-robot.github.io/joint_level_control/html/index.html).

Commit message:

worked on related page error_handling.md and added control flow graph of error handling

error_handling.md, after:

# Error handling
## Idea
Since wrong sensor readings can cause catastrophic failure of the Triped, it is important to find out when such incorrect readings occur and to deal with them accordingly.   
The general idea of the error handling is to check each step of the spi transfer from the beaglebone to the sensor for errors and to set the hardware interface into an error state, should the errors accumulate. 
The error types can also be weighted differently, depending on how critical they are in operation of the motors.  
Also, since higher level control blocks depend on the lower levels, the state of the lower levels need to be broadcastet. This is done via ros diagnostic topics.

## What is tracked
The error handling of the controller can be seen in the following diagram:
![error_handling_flowchart](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TriPed-Robot/joint_level_control/main/docs/triped_error_handling.svg)

The error handling is present in each layer of the joint level controller. It begins in the lowest layer with the spi transfer. 
The first check is, whether the spi device can be opened. If this isn't the case, then a flag indicating so, will be set. This flag is called `SPI_DEVICE_ERROR` and is set within the `error` parameter of the readSwingAngle function, which is a class variable of the HallSensor class.
Furthermore the spi mode is set, read and if an error occurs the `SPI_MODE_ERROR` flag will be set. 
Then after the spi transfer, the recieved message is checked for a set error bit, indicating a wrong last command frame to the sensor, and leading to the `SPI_CMD_ERROR` flag being set. The message is also checked for correct parity, since a wrong parity indicates incorrectly transfered sensor values. A wrong parity is indicated by the `SPI_PARITY_ERROR` flag.

The next layer is the HallSensor class. There the returned counts of the sensor are checked for feasibility. This means, the sensor returns a 16383 or 16384 value, if it is not correctly connected to the beaglebone. Therefore a reading of said values leads to another error called `ANGLE_OUT_OF_BOUNDS_ERROR`. The hall sensor now calculates the sensor angle from the counts and gives it, together with all error flags, to the next higher layer.

Finally, in the read function of the SwingJoint class the returned sensor angle is checked against the joint limits. Should the angle not be within the limits, specified in the joints.yaml file, the `JOINT_LIMIT_ERROR` flag is set.

### Weighing the errors
The SwingJoint class contains the weighing functionality of the error handling system. For this

## What isn't tracked
 While the system can check if the angle is still within bounds, it can not check if the changes between angles are fitting the last motor commands. This means, if the sensor is loosely mounted or too far from the magnet, the actual angle can be very different from the the measured angle, while still no error is thrown. 


## What happens if an error occurs
The error gets detected, logged to the console and then added to the weighted error sum. If this sum is larger than a specified treshhold [see customisation], then the system goes into ERROR state. This leads to the following things happening: 
The `SwingJoint::write()` function will no longer write the command from the controller to the motor, but a specified default value to prevent the motors from damaging the robot. Also the SwingJointNode will update the ros diagnostic topic for the joint with an error message to alert the higher control layers. This update can be seen using the Triped-GUI or using a listener for the diagnostic topics. 
Currently the system can not exit the error state and needs to be restarted manually. 

If the error sum is lower than the specified threshold, then the system will update the ros diagnostic topics with an OK status messagem with a specified rate. In the next iteration the sum decays by a specified amount, if no errors occur, or the errors of the next iteration get added to the sum.

## Customisation
The most important things can be customized rather easily, by changing their values in the joints.yaml file. 
There it is possible to change the `spi_error_motor_default_value`, which is the dafault value sent to the motors once the system reaches the ERROR state. Currently it is set to 0, since the motor api uses motor current and not position and a putting current on the motor, while the system is in ERROR state can be dangerous.   
Also the treshold for when the system changes state from OK to ERROR can be modified using the `spi_error_treshold` parameter. Increasing its value leads to a more lenient error handling and possibly slower reaction to errors. Decreasing it too much might make the system unusable, since some errors in the spi transfer are common and do not interfere with normal operation.

Other customisation can be done by changing the values of the weights of the errors in the `SwingJoint::read()` function and by changing the rate of decay applied if no errors occur. If needed the rate of the publishing of OK status messages can be changed in the `SwingJointNode::main()` function. Currently it is set to 2 Hz, which is the lowest rate, the Triped GUI will take for updates. 

The Documentation of this repository can be seen [here](https://triped-robot.github.io/joint_level_control/html/index.html).
